Hello and welcome to this art tutorial.
So in the U.S. We introduced a multi armed benefit program for this ads click through rates optimization
problem.
And we already tried to Algorithms the first algorithm was the simple random selection algorithm that
consists of selecting at pure random and AD at each round.
And this algorithm gave us a totally ward of 1200 on average because you know there is this random factor
that on average we got 1200 total reward.
And of course when we plotted the histogram every ad was selected more or less the same number of times.
And then we tried another algorithm which was the upper found on rhythm and there we got much better
results because not only we managed to almost double the total reward because we got it all we want
of 2170 8.
So almost double of what we obtained with random selection and the even better thing is that we managed
to figure out which version was the best to show to the user that is which adversion had the highest
conversion rate the highest ETR that is the highest click through rate.
And now in this section we are going to try a new algorithm which is called Thomsons sampling.
And so in this section we're going to look at two things.
First thing is Ken Thompson simply beat the African fins boundaries is Ken Thompson simply give us a
tool reward that is even higher than 2170 8.
You know we almost doubled the total reward of random selection.
Let's see if we can beat that again.
Like more than double or even triple it.
I don't know.
Let's see.
And the second thing that we're going to look at is if we get the same adversion that has the highest
conversion rate.
Let's see if we get adversion number 5 which was found by the upper confidence about algorithm it found
adversion number five.
So let's hope that we also get at version number five.
This should logically be the case if we manage to beat upper confidence down in terms of total we want.
So let's do this let's implement Tomsen sampling in this section we're actually going to do that in
one step because when you think about it we will only need to change the strategy here in this for and
loop and then keep the same to implement Thompson something because you know we'll keep these parameters
here that is this number of rounds.
This number adds this at select to the vector that contains all the different ads selected at each round.
And this will need to change because these are the parameters of the Opera confidence about algorithms
so we will need to change it.
And of course we will keep this total reward because we want to get the total reward accumulated through
the execution of this Thompson sampling algorithm.
So what we're going to do now is simply take everything from here to here copy and then paste it here
and we will only change what we need to change.
That is the right to run hitters for the Tompson sampling algorithm.
All right so let's do it.
We can already replace UCAP here by Thomson Semlin And now let's change the strategy before.
Let's start with the basics.
Let's set the rightful there as working directory so let's go to our mission folder then point six reinforcement
learning Thompson stumbling and then make sure that you have this as a city are optimizations Yes that
is of course the same c as the file as the one we had in Opera Company confidence found.
So if you have this data set you are now ready to click on this more button here and then set as working
directory.
All right so now let's implement our Thomson sampling algorithm.
So let's directly jump to the slide of the Tompson something algorithm.
All right so where do we see here this.
THOMPSON something algorithm takes three steps.
First step is and each round we need to consider two numbers for each add.
The first number is the number of times he and I got we were one up to around and.
And the second number is the number of times that I got.
We were zero up to around.
And so that's the first thing we'll do here.
We will consider these parameters and declare the variables corresponding to these parameters and we
can notice that if we compare this Thompson something algorithm to the UCB algorithm.
Well it's the same step one with different parameters because as you can notice here in the step one
of the upper confidence about algorithm we also consider two numbers and these two numbers are the number
of times he and I were selected up to around and and the sum of the words of the add up to around.
And so if we have a look at this code section here which is the code section for the above comes from
spell logarithm.
Well we can see that these two parameters are here and that these parameters are no longer the parameters
for Tomson sampling and these two parameters that we consider in step 1 in the UCB algorithm are actually
replaced by two new parameters in the Thompson sampling algorithm.
So what we'll do right now is simply to remove these two parameters that are the parameters considered
and the step one of the use of the algorithm and replace them by these two new parameters that we need
to consider for Tompson sampling algorithm.
So let's replace them right away.
And therefore let's declare two new marbles.
So first longer the number of times the ADD I got.
We were one up to around and so let's call this number numbers of words and then underscore and one
to specify that it's the number of times the ad got keyword one and then the second number is the number
of times the ad I got we were 0 up to around.
And so saying we're going to create this variable numbers of rewards zero.
Now what are we going to be these two variables.
So these are the parameters of Tompson sampling at the essence of the future strategy that we're going
to have here.
So these two variables here are going to be some vectors of the elements that has ten elements.
And as you might have guessed they will contain for each add the number of times they got we worked
one up to around and and zero up to around.
And so we're going to initialize these vectors the same way as we did for opera confidence and that
is we're going to take this integer D that creates a vector of d elements and those elements are zeroes.
So that's exactly how we are going to initialize these two variables here by a vector of 10 zeros.
Because of course at the beginning the number of words of each add is of course zero.
Because simply each add wasn't selected yet.
All right.
So we have our two arguments.
That means that step 1 is done and we can move onto Step 2.
So Step two is for each add.
I we take a random draw from this distribution below which is the beta distribution.
And why is that.
It's because we have two important assumptions here which are related to Bayesian inference.
So the first assumption is this first line here we suppose that each and I gets reward from a Bernoulli
distribution of parameter Theta I which is the probability of success and you can picture this probability
of success by showing the ad to a huge amount of users like one million users and theder I could be
interpreted as the number of times the outcomes were one.
That is the number of successes divided by the total number of times we selected the ADD that is 1 million.
So basically theta is the probability of success that is the probability of getting we one when we select
the add.
And so the assumption is that each ad I get rewards zero and one from this Vernou the distribution of
parameter theta which is the probability of success and then the second assumption a less strong assumption
than the first one which is the strongest assumption that we have.
The second assumption which is this second line here and that is that we assume that theta has a uniform
distribution which has the prior distribution and then we use the Bayes Rule to get to a particular
distribution which is BTG given the rewards that we got up to the round end.
And so by using base rule that's how we get this better distribution in step 2 here.
And so by taking at each round these random draws of these beta distribution.
Well since these random draws represent nothing else and this probability of success we get the strategy
here which is to take the maximum of these drones because the maximum of these random drops is approximating
the highest probability of success.
And that's the whole idea behind Tompson something that we are trying to estimate these parameters features
that are the probability of success of each of these 10.
And then by taking these random draws and taking the highest of them we are estimating the highest probability
of success and this highest probability of success corresponds to one specific ad and each round.
So when we take these random draw that is specific round we might be wrong.
But when we take these random draws over thousands of rounds we'll just based on the essence of probability
we obtain over all the data that corresponds to the ad that has the highest probability of success.
That is the highest probability of getting reward calls 1.
And that's the idea behind Thomsons sampling.
And by the way taking these maximum of these random draws that is the maximum of these estimations of
the probability of getting rewarded cause 1.
Well that's nothing else but step three.
And so right now what we'll do is to implement this strategy composed of step two and step three in
this code section here.
Replacing the old strategy of getting the upper confidence spells.
OK so let's do it efficiently Let's keep the logic behind this code section let's not delete everything
too quickly.
You know since we'll get to different random draws of each add at each round.
And since we need to take this highest random draw well we should keep this coding strategy here that
gets the maximum value of something.
So we'll replace this Max up about here by a max random because you know in the U.S. algorithm we needed
to take the maximum upper bound.
And here for Tompson something we need to take the maximum random draw.
So we call this maximum random draw Max random.
All right.
And then of course we keep this at equal zero because no that's just to initialize the ad that will
select a specific round because of course with Tompson sampling we will you pick and not to show to
the user.
So we will keep this article zero.
And this ad equals I hear.
But then what we absolutely need to change here is this if else because if else is directly specific
to the upper confidence about strategy.
So we will remove this and now we will implement the Tompson sampling strategy.
So first thing we need to do is to generate the random draws of each of the 10 ads.
So we keep this for in one day because we will need this group to go through different ads.
And so now we need to take the random draws.
So we are going to declare here a new variable that we'll call random on the score data and that of
course will correspond to the different run and draws because these are random draws taken from the
data distribution.
So that equals.
And now we are going to use a function of r which is our beta function which will give us exactly what
we want.
That is it will give us some random draws of the beta distribution of parameters that we choose.
And as we can see on the slide here the first parameter is the number of times the average and I got
we were one plus one and the second parameter is the number of times the add I got we've got zero plus
1.
So let's do it let's press 1 here to get some info about this.
Our beta function.
So we will need only three of these arguments here.
The first argument we need is an the number of observations so here and equals one because we only want
to take one random draw and then shape one and shape two other two parameters of our beta distribution
that is shape one is the number of times the Akhet we were one plus one and two is the number of times
the odds that we were zero plus 1.
So here for shape one we input shape one equals numbers of rewards one.
And of course since this corresponds to a specific ad I will add some brackets here and take the adversion.
I this we're dealing with at this specific time in this four island here that it's discrete parts to
a specific add.
And let's not forget the plus one here and then come out to put the second parameter.
And of course the second parameter is going to be the IFE index of these numbers if we want zero vector.
And then let's not forget the plus 1 here and that are two parameters of this beta distribution from
which we are getting the random draws.
OK so we have everything we need.
And now of course we will need to play with this if condition here to get the maximum of these random
draws.
So a good exercise for you would be to pass on this video and try to finish this code section here to
guess the last elements of this code here.
So I'm going to tell you right now.
Well right now we need to take the maximum of these random draws.
We already declared this Max random viable here that will be this maximum of these random draws and
so well you guessed it.
Now we need to replace this Max up about here by Max random and here of course we need to replace this
upper bound here by random data.
OK.
And then same here we replaced Max up prevailing here by Max random and average down here by random
data.
And eventually of course we keep this as equals here.
OK.
So let's re-explained quickly what's happening here.
For each AM I IN THIS FOR loop here.
Well we're taking a random draw from this failed distribution of parameters.
Number of times the Akhet we want one plus one and number of times the ad because we were 0 plus 1 and
then each time we take a random draw from this distribution.
Well we checked to see if this random draw is higher than this Max random here.
So of course for the first and this will be the case because Max random was initialized to zero.
So this condition will be true for the first ad and therefore Max random will be equal to this first
random draw here.
And so we keep this for us at here.
And then when we move on to the next and what happens is that we take another random draw from this
beta distribution of these parameters here that corresponds to this you and I.
And then if this new random draw is higher than this maximum here that was equal to the previous random
draw.
Well that means that this condition is true and therefore Max random takes the value of this new random
draw and therefore we select this new adversion.
I hear that has the highest random draw and we forget about the previous ad that was selected because
simply it has a lower random draw.
All right so that's the idea and that's the strategy of Tomsen sampling that we are implementing at
each round.
Great.
So now we almost have everything we need.
The thing that we need to update now is what's happening here because this comes from the upper confidence
bound algorithm.
So this is you know the parameter of step 1 in the UCB algorithm.
So we will need to remove this line.
We don't need this and we have to keep this because this is to get the real reward.
As we explained the UCB algorithm know this is actually how we proceed to get the reward.
In this simulation data sets and then what do we have we have this line containing the sums of words.
And of course the sums of rewards is a parameter of the UCAP algorithm so we need to remove that as
well.
And now we are ready to update what we need to update for the Thompson something algorithm.
All right and then we have the total we weren't there of course who must keep because this is the exciting
result.
And this is kind of a performance evaluator.
So now according to you what do we need to update.
Well of course what we need to date are these two vectors here.
Numbers of words 1 and numbers if we want zero.
Because you know in this strategy here we are importing the index of these two vectors.
But you know we need to update them on the trend because otherwise they will always be equal to zero
because they were initialized 0.
So now what do we need to do.
We need to increment their values when we get the reward.
So let's see what we need to increment for this variable.
Here are the numbers if we want one.
Well this corresponds to the different numbers of times each add got.
We won one round.
And so we need to increment it only when the ADD got we wanted one.
And what about this vector.
Well that's the same.
That's the vector containing the different numbers of times each add got we were 0 At around and and
so we need to increment this vector only when the adults we selected got we were 0.
So since this depends on the reward we get when we select the add we will need an if condition.
And so we're going to write this if condition here if and so the condition is simply if we Ward equals
equals 1.
So if this reward we get at this specific round when we select a specific add here if this reward is
1 then what do we need to do we need to increment this number of words.
1 but only for the index because this index here corresponds to the index of the ad that was selected.
So let's do it let's increment this numbers of rewards one let's copy that and let's face it here and
now let's take the ad index corresponding to the index of the ad that was selected and then that's where
we need to increment it.
So I'm going to copy this and paste it here and add a plus one.
All right.
So when we word this one well of course what we need to do is to add a plus one to the number of times
this add here got the word one.
All right.
And then we have this else and this else corresponds to the situation where we word here is equal to
zero.
That is when he added we selected go to zero the word specific around and.
And therefore when that happens we need to increment the numbers of the words zero this time.
So I'm copying this line and facing it right here and then replace the next I buy add because we need
to increment the numbers of words zero but only for the value corresponding to this add index here.
All right.
Now we're done.
Thompson something is actually fully implemented.
So now time for the exciting step visualizing the results.
So we'll do that in the next tutorial and until then enjoy machine learning.